Alright in this video,
we're gonna write our first custom type, our first query,
and our first mutation.
And to do that we are gonna take Prisma out of the equation,
just so that we're not confused
as to like what is doing what.
In this case, we are going to be writing our schema,
our queries and mutation, just on the Yoga layer.
And we're not gonna be interfacing
with the actual database layer just yet,
and that's also gonna show you that you could possibly use
something like Yoga without Prisma.
So, what I wanna do is open up your backend here
and I want you to open up your schema.graphql.
You see that how we did these two mutations with hi here.
I also want to go ahead and start this thing up
if you're not already doing that.
It's gonna tell us it's running on local host port 4444.
I have the GraphQL Playground app installed
and you can just do a quick Google search
for GraphQL Playground
and you see that it automatically opened that up for me.
If you don't have that installed,
you can also just visit local host 4444, in the browser,
and that will show you
exactly what you've got going on here.
Now, what we wanna do now is go back to our schema
and we have hi, and you can tell that this
is like the shape of our API.
Anything that you want to be visible via your API
goes in your schema and you can see that
by going to your actual URL here,
clicking on your schema, and you can see that it tells us.
These are the queries we have
and these are the mutations that we have.
Well, what we could do is start
to write our own query and mutations.
So, if we go to our query here and let's remove hi,
and let's just say dogs.
Dogs is going to be a query that we have
and that needs to return, what is it we're gonna return?
It's going to return a list of dogs.
Now, normally in JavaScript you might say,
okay is this gonna return an array
or you just assume that it's gonna return an array
of objects and each objects is going to have a name of a dog
and maybe some other information about the dog.
But because GraphQL is typed,
if you want to return a shape of something,
you have to go and make that into its on type.
Let's go up here, we'll say type dog
and here's where we describe what a dog looks like,
let's actually put a capital D on there,
and a dog will have a name which is a String,
and that's always required, and that's it for now.
But we could also put like an age and a favorite toy
and a type of dog, you get the point, right?
Then we'll go down here and when somebody is querying dogs,
we are going to return an array of dogs.
So we're gonna say it will turn an array of dogs
and that is always going to be required.
If I put an exclamation mark on the end of Dog,
this means that I always have to return an array
and that array must always
have a Dog inside of it, at least one.
But in this case it's doable to return an array of just one.
Let's give that a save.
Now, well what you need to do
whenever you create a new query,
is you need to set up a resolver.
And a resolver answers the question,
where does this data come from
or how do we get it to the end user?
So and to do that we open up our Query.js.
Now remember that when we created our server here,
we line up the schema,
which is this with a bunch of mutations
and queries that resolve
to the queries and mutations that we have.
So, we're gonna open up our query and we're going to say.
In here you just have to have a method
on every single query that lines up exactly
with the different queries that we have.
So, we're gonna make a dogs one
and this is just a shorthand syntax for this,
so we can just do that.
Each time that you have a request coming in,
it's going to give you this
sort of signature of four different variables.
First one is the parent and we'll talk about what that is
in just a second but that's just the parent schema
that we have in GraphQL, then we also get arguments
that have been passed to the query.
We also get the context, which earlier,
if we can take a look at our createServer again,
you see that the context we've given ourself
access to the database.
That's just a way for us to surface the database.
Comebacks will also give us the rest of the request as well.
So, if we need any request information
about the incoming request whether that's headers,
or cookies, or anything that's coming in
that will be available on the context request.
And then finally we get this variable called info.
And on info we get a whole bunch of information
around the GraphQL query that's coming in.
All of these variables will make sense
as we start to us them, but for now,
we're actually just going to be returning.
Let's just return an array of dogs, we'll say name Snickers.
And we'll give ourselves a name, Sunny.
Okay, that looks good.
Now, if that works properly,
we should be able to go back here,
you can hit this little button here to refresh your schema
and then if we go to our schema here.
You'll see that our queries is dogs
and it will return an array of dogs.
And we also see that we have a type of dog
that has a name of strings.
So, we should be able to here and say query,
dogs, and from each dog we wanna return,
well we only have a name property in there.
So, go ahead and run it, there we go.
With the data that comes back
is an array of dogs, name Snickers, name Sunny.
And you see what's happening here is that,
we aren't actually interfacing with any database here.
I'm just sending back raw text to the user.
And this data could come from anywhere.
You could hit an external REST API
and then return the data here.
You could open up a CSV file
and parse it, return those values,
you could pull these values from memory.
In our case, and most likely,
you're gonna be pulling those from a database.
So, this is where your database calls are going to go,
regardless of what database your using on the backend,
in our case we're going to be using Prisma.
So that's good, let's write a mutation
and then come back and modify this query.
So first thing you want to do
is you go back to your mutation here,
we're gonna remove that hi one.
And we'll make a mutation called createDog,
and that is going to take in a argument which is a name,
and that is going to be a String, that is required.
And from that we are going to return colon, a Dog.
Right, so we're going to take in a name,
we're going to make a dog object,
or a dog type and return that dog.
So we got that up and running.
It actually used to yell at me
that any time you had something in you schema
that didn't line up with your resolvers,
it would yell at you.
Maybe it's the other way around,
let's take a quick look at that.
If I make a mutation here and I say doesn't belong,
there we go, it yells at you here.
Mutation.doesntbelong is defined in the resolver
but not in schema.
So anytime you put a mutation in here,
it has to mirror that in schema.
So ours is going to be called createDog
and again we're going to get all that same signature.
The parent, the args, the info,
oh no, the context, ctx, and the info.
And from here, this is where we create a dog.
Yeah, so let's just go ahead and console.log the args.
Just to see exactly what we're working with here.
So I'm gonna clear this out, I usually hit Command + K
just to get rid of all that noise.
Then we'll go down here.
Now, there's a couple of options that we have here.
If you want to write a mutation in the same panel here.
You're going to see, here, let's actually go ahead
and write the mutation down below here, we'll say create,
oh, it's not showing us the createDogs
because we have to refresh.
Now let's try it, there we go createDog.
That requires a name and we'll call it Snickers.
And from that we're going to return the name of the dog.
Now if we want to run this,
it just says Unnamed, Unnamed, right?
So if you have multiple queries
and you won't to be able to name them?
In GraphQL you can actually go ahead and name them
so that you can easily view or access
or in our case just run them from here.
So, we'll call this query, getAllDogs,
and we'll call this mutation createADog.
Now if we were to run createADog,
it's actually going to not, it's gonna error out
because we haven't actually created a dog on the backend.
But let's see what happens in our terminal here.
You see that we console.log args,
it gives us name of Snickers.
Now, let's actually kind of mimic using a database here,
so we can see it working.
If we go back to our VS Code here, the mutation,
let's actually just store those in memory
on the global scope.
This is something you should never actually do
because every time your server restarts,
you're going to lose everything in memory
and you should also not put things on the global scope.
But just for a simple example,
similar to how you would store something
in the window in the browser.
So what we'll do is we'll say, window, or no,
global.dogs is equal to global.dogs, or an empty array.
So the first time around it's gonna be an empty array.
Then what we need to do is just create a dog.
So, let's say, create a dog, say const newDogs
is equal to an object, or the name of the dog
is going to be equal to the args.name.
Then we can take the global.dogs and push the new dog,
don't actually push real dogs, just push variable dogs,
and then return the new dog from there.
So what that should do is it create a new dog,
it'll put it into the global namespace
and then it will return it.
And then we can go on to our query side of things,
and instead of returning a hard code it,
we should be able to just return global.dogs.
Actually, here we should say global.dogs is equal to itself
or an empty array and that was just if anyone ever runs that
before we push a dog into the global namespace,
it's going to return an empty array.
Because remember we specify here that even
if there are none return as an empty array.
So let's see if that works for us.
We're gonna go ahead and createADog.
I have to do call getAllDogs, there we go!
It gives us a new one!
Now, let's change this one to Sunny, run it again,
and dogo.
Now if I run it,
I should get all three coming back, beautiful!
So you see what's happening is like I'm using the memory
of my computer as like a temporary database.
And that is exactly how query and mutations work.
You take in the data, you put it somewhere,
and then you return whatever it is that you're expecting.
In our case, we are returning the dog
but that might just be an success message
telling the user that it had worked.
And then on the flip side, you can then access that data
whether it's in memory or it's in a database
and return those to the user.
So what we're gonna do next
is we're actually going to be interfacing with the database
so that when we kill our server
and obviously when people on other computers
are visiting our website,
they're going to be able to access that data.